Project: CAMELS

Client and Matter Electronic Legal System

Goal: To serve the needs of small law firms and be adapted to work for small businesses 
as well.

Given a background in developing legal software for four and a half years, and small 
business experience for a few years and a four year bachelors in business administration, 
Norman King is working on a series of software for small business and small law firms 
by starting out from scratch and doing things differently than he did when he worked for 
a law firm and ran his own small businesses. This is because business changes and it is 
best to adapt to change instead of repeating the mistakes of the past over and over again. 
This time the slate will be started out new, and there will be innovation into new ways of 
doing things.

The old software written had “legacy issues” with old operating systems and old 
application software. First the prototype will be written in Visual BASIC 6.0 for legacy 
support and then converted to Visual BASIC 2005 or Visual C# 2005 and above. In the 
conversion most code will be rewritten to take advantage of things like Microsoft.Net, 
XML, and newer versions of Windows and Crystal Reports that didn’t exist back in 2002 
or earlier when Norman last worked on software. Over the past five years, Norman went 
back to college and studied new technologies to find new ways of doing things, and to 
write better software than he had written before.

Sometimes Law Firms need to connect to Extranet networks and exchange information. 
One of the goals of this software will be to use open standards that any law firm can use 
to exchange data between firms. The CAMEL database will have support added to search 
information from extra tables added to contain data from other law firms. Over time the 
database will grow and evolve to hold new and different data and find a way to convert 
and exchange data from different databases. This can be hard when the definitions of 
other databases are closed and proprietary. So the CAMEL system will have to 
implement open source database structures that can be shared between law firms and 
even offer a “no frills” open source version of the CAMEL software for other law firms 
to build around and customize so that when law firms merge together or exchange data 
there are some open standards to use to help ease the flow of data. There will also be an 
export and import option to export and import data files in text CSV comma separated 
values, XML files, HTML tables, and some other common formats along with a way to 
communicate over the Internet to exchange data.

First there will be implemented a Matters Management system that searches data on a 
client and matter numbers, names, and other information like billing attorney. Then there 
will be a Conflict Management system in which clients and matters will have the 
conflicts recorded. Then a case management system to review court cases, pleadings, etc 
and keep track of judges, court types, area of law experience, judge experience, court 
experience of the various attorneys. Then there will be created a docket calendar to keep 
track of docket and nondocket information. Then there will be a contact management 
program to keep track of clients, organizations, witnesses, judges, etc. Then there will be 
an attempt to combine those systems and any other systems into one searchable database. 

For the commercial version there will be reserved such features as customizing it for each 
law firm, adding a knowledge base management system with optional searches on 
external Law and Internet search engines, a reporting system that can export data into 
certain document formats like PDF, Word, Wordperfect, Excel, ODF, RTF, TIFF, JPG, 
PNG, etc. Plus the option to use more than just MS-SQL Server and MS-Access 
databases such as Firebird, MySQL, Oracle based on the customizations needed. There 
will be synching the Docket Calendar and other things to MS-Outlook, 
Thunderbird/Lighting Calendar, Evolution email and calendar, etc.

Because some law firms use more than just Windows systems there will be either a 
Python, Java, or C++ version that can be run on Mac OSX, Linux, BSD Unix and other 
systems that support those languages. This is an advanced goal to be cross platform as 
most other law software makers only target Windows and don’t have a solution for 
running on other operating systems. We understand that some of the attorneys and 
employees need Mac OSX, Linux, BSD Unix systems for various software that isn’t 
available for Windows, and that a non-Windows system is not as prone to virus infections 
so they are safer to use in the interest of security.

Phase One:
Start the project in Visual BASIC 6.0 as a prototype using MS-Access 2003 as the 
database. Work out design issues, develop a basic system for managing client and matter 
searches as well as displaying client and matter information. CAMEL Lookup should be 
an application that can search client and matter issues, CAMEL Info should be a program 
that can display client and matter information, CAMEL Entry should be a program that 
can do data entry and edits of database information. All three programs should interact 
with each other via OLE/DDE communication.

Phase Two:
Convert code to Visual BASIC 2005 or Visual C# 2005 or higher. Possible C++, Java, or 
Python ports as well. This should develop a generic skeleton program that can be 
customized to serve the needs of the company it will be modified for. The goal is to 
modify custom programs to fit a business in the same way that a suit is tailored to suit a 
person, and like each suit, each customized program is different. The programs should 
work not only with Windows, but also with Linux, Mac OSX, BSD Unix, etc so C++, 
Java, and Python conversions may be needed for that. Database needs to be migrated to 
SQL Server 2005, MySQL, Oracle, Postgres, or some other high end database that goes 
beyond what MS-Access 2003 provides. The goal here is to become operating system 
agonistic and database agnostic, in which it should not matter what operating system or 
database the software is powered by, as long as it is of good quality and meets the needs 
of the business it is designed for as well.

Possible we might have to work on the Windows version first, and sell that, to raise 
enough money to support other operating systems and languages later. After that we 
should be able to hire developers to help with the work and be able to do that. Doing it all 
with just one person is going to be a major challenge. A goal of any business is to 
become profitable enough to hire on employees to take on their fair share of the work. As 
of this writing no business has been formed, and most likely won’t be formed until we 
can get a working prototype and get into phase two, so that we have something to show 
the bank or possible investors that works as a proof of concept. Working name for 
business is XORMAD and xormad.com was registered in Norman’s name. XORMAD 
stands for eXtreme Oriented Revolutionary Management and Design. Classical 
management and classical design are things that most businesses suffer from, XORMAD 
exists to take things to the extreme, to the future, and revolutionize software development 
and business management with a higher quality design.

Marketing:
Norman is well known for his high quality of work, plus the development is being done 
in the USA. Being a small business, we should have low overhead and be able to sell our 
products at a lower price than most software companies. Therefore, XORMAD should be 
able to offer custom application development programming services and system 
integration services at a lower cost than bigger corporations. Along with that is that the 
CAMELS system will be written using best practices and high quality to match other 
commercial quality software that might exist on the market. Many open source legal 
software only reach a certain point and then stop developing or are abandoned. The 
CAMELS system seeks to provide a free as in speech version that is no frills, and can be 
downloaded for free but XORMAD owns the IP. XORMAD can use it as a template to 
develop customized versions and sell the services of doing so.


